PREDICTION OF THE NATURAL DISASTERS
ABSTRACT:
The natural disasters(NDs) like earthquake (EQ), tsunami (TSU), flood(FL), volcanic eruption(VE) can be monitored by the use of fractals. The Mandelbrot fractal used to model the coastline (at the beginning), shall be employed to handle the patterns that help in predicting the NDs. Seismic Zonation and enhanced thermal profile monitoring of the volcanoes shall be used to aid in the prediction of the volcanic eruption. Enhanced weather monitoring systems with complex prediction patterns associated with the temperature changes in the surface of the volcanoes for example can be linked for better prediction of volcanic eruptions. We are going to employ Microsoft Azure for deploying certain apps (each for certain ND (discrete due to different factors affecting different NDs)) that monitor the respective parameters that help in predicting the NDs. In case of VEs, the electrical and magnetic activities (fields) of the volcano are monitored from the app which monitors the parameters of temperature, magnetic flux density, electrical field intensity continuously and predicts the possibility of VE. In case of the earthquake the seismic zonation and the use of fractals of the region shall be fed into the map and other time dependent (time varying) parameters shall be monitored by the app and it predicts the possibility of the earthquake. All of the data acquired from the app will be stored and computed using the Microsoft Azure Cloud Platform (PaaS) and the computation in the same. The way to detect the tsunami, hurricane can be from the sound pressure levels, humidity, the wind speed forecasting from the advanced weather forecasting, electrical and magnetic flux density changes in the earth that causes these disasters. The way to detect landslides is by monitoring the land (soil) quality from the coarseness, cropping patterns (if any), plants and trees root profiles which lead to the holding of the top soil. The soil layer is continuously monitored by advances soil profile monitoring systems that feeds data to the app developed by us. The apps that are going to be developed will also allows us people to know what should be done at that time and what preparations must be done  when the period arrives (forecasted). The people will also be aware of the precautions that will lead to safer environment and also prevents mass life claims by the disasters. The flood shall be predicted from the supercell clouds, weather pattern monitoring, humidity changes, SPL, etc.
